if you had your memories erased and were
transported into a small area surrounded
by 360 degrees maize with deadly
creatures on the inside preventing you
from escaping
would you know how to survive in this
video i'm going to be teaching you how
to beat the maze from the maze runner
the movie starts off with a strange
elevator transporting a confused white
boy
no not this dude but this dude his name
is thomas and he's the main character of
the movie
the best thing i could recommend for
thomas is to stay calm because if you're
all panicky it's not going to help you
think rationally in the future
plus panicking isn't going to get you
out of an elevator when thomas's
elevator reaches the top there's a group
of boys standing around him as the
elevator opens they're all giggling and
laughing kind of creepily
these group of boys are known as the
gladers and they all had their memories
erased and transported by this elevator
to the glade
in the same method thomas did after
getting hauled out of the elevator he
immediately starts to run away from the
group
obviously they didn't initially hurt you
so i strongly suggest you save your
energy and don't run away because where
are you gonna run to you don't even know
what's around you so let's quickly go
over the glade location it's a forested
area that includes farmland and a small
stream
so has plenty of food and water but it's
surrounded 360 degrees by tall walls
that make up the maze
there's also a few shelters that keep
you safe and are also used for meetings
and there's no visible predators in the
area so overall it seems like a pretty
good location to stay in
we learned in the movie that there's
several jobs you can occupy inside the
glade whether it's the builders the
people in charge of building the
shelters
the farmers the people in charge of
farming [ __ ] and the runners the people
in charge of running in and out of the
maze looking for a way out and mapping
it out
however there is one obvious job that
you don't want to take and that is being
a runner
because the runner is the only
occupation that can technically get you
killed in the beginning of the movie
we quickly see exactly why you don't
want to be a runner because the only way
you can die is if you get stung by one
of the creatures inside the maze
and ben one of the former runners gets
stung and he goes all apeshit and insane
the boys sent ben back in the maze
basically to kill him but what i don't
understand is why they didn't just study
him
and wait for the virus to play his full
course they don't know what a fully
infected person looks like
so it doesn't hurt to watch for the
symptoms and then kill him after
now this is the point where i'm trying
to make clear i'm only pointing out plot
holes inside the movie i'm not focusing
on the novels or the books or any of the
short stories that come with the maze
runner
thomas as soon as he gets inside the
maze starts trying to figure out how he
can get out which i think is a great
approach a lot of these boys actually
gave up and their content was staying in
the maze the rest of their lives
so thomas asks is there a way we can
just climb to the top of the maze and
escape
the guy he's talking to immediately
replies that the ivy doesn't go all the
way to the top
and besides where you're gonna go from
there however unlike what the boys said
we could see there's ivy clearly
extending
the top of the wall on the left side we
can also see that they've invented
ladders and other similar contraptions
that they could easily use to reach the
top of the maze wall
that's not even to mention that from
this clip here you can see that it's
really easy to climb this ivy it's very
sturdy and can easily support the weight
of one to two people
we can see that this diagram i drew here
that once you are able to get the top of
the maze you should be able to walk
across the top to an exit of course
there'd be a long drop but we can also
see that the boys have technology
invented
that would create a sturdy rope allowing
you to repel yourself down
now let's take a quick look at the
second thing the boy claims
the box won't go back down with someone
in it that is absolutely true the box
won't go down with someone in it but
that doesn't stop you from using a rock
or any sort of heavy object to smash a
hole in the bottom
the bottom is made out of steel mesh
which actually isn't too hard to break
through
from there you can use that powerful
rope i showed you earlier and just repel
yourself down
however there's a chance you'll meet
some unhappy scientists and maybe this
isn't the best solution
later in the movie we see two runners go
inside the maze to go look for ben
i don't know what they're looking for
are they looking for his corpse are they
looking for his trail
anyways if you're in this situation try
to advise them to not go look for ben
it's so pointless instead i would
suggest taking some time out to map the
maze
however the day comes to an end and the
two runners haven't returned back and if
you didn't already know at night time
all those little spider monsters come
out and [ __ ] kill you
so you can't stay in the maze an entire
night right before the maze doors are
about to close however we see minnow one
of the runners dragging the other runner
albie back it's super obvious that if
minnow keeps trying to drag
alby they're never gonna make it so mino
instead of
releasing alby and running to save
himself decides to sacrifice himself
with alby
if you're in this situation i would
suggest dropping the other person and
making it out
because it's better one person dead than
two however
thomas knows that he's the main
character of the movie so after he sees
minnow deciding to sacrifice himself he
decides to run into the maze with them
to die together
i don't know why you would ever do this
you know less about the maze than
everyone there
so the odds of you actually making out
of this alive if you do that is
basically zero
the two friends then decide to try to
save their injured friend by tying him
high up in some vines in the movie it
ends up working however i think this is
very stupid
think about it if they were just one
second later they both would have gotten
eaten by the spider the spider already
injected the friends with an incurable
death venom so the odds of him dying is
at this point in the movie so they're
basically trying to save a dead man
however right before they can get him to
the high point of the vines minnow runs
away because he sees a spider
thomas like a dumb ass he is decides to
stay behind however he does find a cool
place to hide
if i were in this situation i would just
continue hiding in that place till
daylight and the spiders leave
there's no reason to go and run around
however thomas decides instead of hiding
in a place where spiders
obviously can't see him he needs to run
around in the maze that's completely
closed off
why not just please just stay in the
hiding spot till morning through the
power of
love friendship and movie logic everyone
is able to make it out of the maze alive
now here is where we meet the first
special ed person in the glade
his name is gally and he obviously has
some mental issues he's like a dumb
conservative uncle that's so obsessed
with keeping his family white even
though his daughter is [ __ ] a black
guy
he wants to punish you for breaking the
rules even though you saved everyone
inside the maze
while he is a certified number one
dumbass i would suggest
rallying everyone together and maybe
trying to vote him out of the glade
because the leader is injured right now
you could step up and assume a
leadership position however just then
the box returns and it's come up with
another person
this time however it's a girl and she's
labeled with the last one ever
obviously this doesn't signal good
things because if it's the last person
ever you're inevitably gonna run out of
people
later in the movie thomas and friends go
back in the maze to investigate the
spider thingy that they had killed
earlier the spider thingies are called
grievers if i didn't mention that
already
they really want to see if they can get
any hints or clues based on what this
reaver has
investigating the griever in my opinion
is actually a great idea he's one of
your first hints you ever got and might
be one of the last hints you ever get
however i don't agree why do you have to
stick your entire hand to touch the
[ __ ] griever
this part doesn't make sense to me
because you don't know if it's blood
carries any of the venom or it's acidic
like in the alien movie or anything like
that
instead use the [ __ ] sticks you
brought with you why bring a stick if
you're not going to use it
they end up holding this weird tracker
looking thingy out of the spider and
just leaving with it
instead i would suggest taking all the
scrap metal you never know if you could
make a new weapon such as a spear with
these metal scraps
turns out however they pulled the best
part of the griever they could possibly
pull
it's basically a key that the griever
uses to exit and enter the maze
so later thomas and mino go and try to
leave the maze and they actually find an
exit however they get scanned and
basically there's a security threat
causing all the reavers to be released
so that night there's basically an
all-out attack on the glade and this is
where most people die because all the
spiders get released into the camp and a
bunch of kids start running around and
[ __ ] so i'm gonna give you some tips on
how you could potentially survive this
tip number one
stay grouped with a large amount of
people in this movie a lot of people get
picked up from the spiders because the
spiders often go for people who are
alone
instead stay with the largest group
possible because even if you do get
grabbed there's a chance someone could
free you
tip number two always head for a place
that's rather sheltered or at least will
camouflage you if you're in the middle
of a field a spider's gonna run you down
and [ __ ] kill you if you're in the
middle of a cornfield
chances are the corn will blend you in
and they'll go for a more accessible
victim
we can obviously see that the spiders
are afraid of fire because when the girl
throws a molotov cocktail at it the
spider starts wailing in pain
so one last ditch effort if you're about
to be cornered is to set
the entire forest and field on fire this
could drive away the spiders for a day
and the final solution that i don't
think any of these kids thought of is
simply climb up in a tree we could see
there's a large forested area with trees
and you got a quite a long prior warning
and the spiders are going to be going
after other people
so this will give you plenty of times to
climb a tree and stay quiet the spider
will go after more accessible victims
but there is one more actually even
better idea that i forgot to think of
until now
you could just be like gally and stay
inside the box the box is reinforced
with fired mesh and is underground so
the spiders probably won't even notice
you
after the reaver attack the boys finally
try to make a run for it
however they're confronted by galley who
wants to sacrifice them to the grievers
in order to maintain peace within the
maze
he's obviously gone crazy and i suggest
either killing him or leaving him behind
and you'll see later in the movie why
killing him was probably the better idea
the boy is then split into two factions
one side that stays with gally back
inside the glade and the other side that
stays with thomas and tries to escape
i would definitely choose the escaping
side because staying in the maze is the
same thing as dying because the grievers
are obviously gonna come back
so the boys go to the exit and instead
of sneaking to the exit they decide to
charge him yelling as
loud as they can in this situation you
could have easily saved yourself a lot
more time and a lot less fighting
and maybe a lot more lives if you had
simply stay quiet and try to sneak past
the grievers
rather than yelling and attracting all
the grievers within the maze thomas also
makes the dumbass decision of getting
the most important thing in the entire
group to chuck
chuck is the little fat [ __ ] that can't
do anything correctly in fact he even
ends up almost dropping the key over the
cliff
if he drops that key over the cliff or
messes up a little bit then you're all
dead
after figuring out the code and sealing
the door they finally make their escape
they're in this weird hallway and
they're walking around
here they see a pre-recorded video of
some random scientist
explaining what they were a part of i
would definitely be skeptical of the
situation
the group are about to leave the
facility until they see galley he's been
stung by a griever and armed with a
pistol so he wants to kill them
obviously in this situation the first
thing you'd think to do is use the
minnow spear and throw it through
gally's chest just as mino did in the
movie
but we know this isn't the best idea
because gally gets one final shot ends
up killing chuck
instead i'd use that spear and amen as
his hand and try to knock the gun out of
his hand
after he's disarmed you as a group can
take him down and kill him
and that's it that's how you could
hypothetically beat the maze runner
incorporate these tips next time you're
stuck inside a death maze
if you enjoyed this video make sure to
subscribe like and comment what movie
you want next